#summary Some typical "screenshots" of AE.

= About =

Async-emerge is a terminal software, it has no GUI, so here are given some terminal output as screenshots.


== Typical state of the system ==

If you queue the state of AE with `"ae_state"` tool, 90% of time you will something similar to the next:
<pre># ae_state 
*** Async Emerge *** 
  Cooked binary packages:
[U] dev-libs/libxslt (1.1.26-r2@12/07/2011 -> 1.1.26-r3{tbz2}): XSLT libraries and tools
[I] net-wireless/bluez (4.98-r1@01/24/2012): Bluetooth Tools and System Daemons for Linux
[I] net-nds/openldap (2.4.24@12/08/2011): LDAP suite of application and development tools
[U] media-gfx/imagemagick (6.7.1.0@01/24/2012 -> 6.7.5.3!u{tbz2}): A collection of tools and libraries for many image formats
[I] media-video/dvdauthor (0.6.18@11/24/2011): Tools for generating DVD files to be played on standalone DVD players
[I] media-video/transcode (1.1.7@12/24/2011): A suite of utilities for transcoding video and audio codecs in different containers
[I] media-libs/xine-lib (1.1.20(1)@01/03/2012): Core libraries for Xine movie player
[I] media-gfx/inkscape (0.48.2@11/24/2011): A SVG based generic vector-drawing program
    total: 8
  Linux kernel: is up to date.
  Scheduled user tasks: 0
  Last synced at    : Sat Feb 11 23:30:01 MSK 2012.
  Last cooked at    : Sun Feb 12 02:32:06 MSK 2012.
  Last installed at : Thu Feb  9 01:53:58 MSK 2012.
  Last cook state: OK, READY TO INSTALL ...
  Last install state: READY FOR UPDATE ...
</pre>
This output means that everything is OK, all updates were built (8 packages) and you can fast install these packages from binaries (or wait till "the next time").

== Typical build log ==

But before you saw the state of AE shown above, a cron called `"ae_makeworld"` tool to build these binaries. (Someone could call it manually if needed.) ...and croned `"ae_makeworld"` out the next log:
<pre># cat /var/log/async.emerge/last.cron.log 
--- Sun Feb 12 01:30:01 MSK 2012 ---
*** Layman *** 
At revision 358.
From git://git.overlays.gentoo.org/proj/perl-overlay
   75221eb..29c3524  master     -> origin/master
Updating 75221eb..29c3524
Fast-forward
 dev-perl/App-Cmd/App-Cmd-0.315.0.ebuild            |   76 +++++++++++++++
 dev-perl/App-Cmd/ChangeLog                         |    5 +
 dev-perl/App-Cmd/Manifest                          |   30 +++---
<skipped...>
 rename dev-perl/Test-Reporter/{Test-Reporter-1.56.ebuild => Test-Reporter-1.560.0.ebuild} (79%)
 rename dev-perl/Test-Reporter/{Test-Reporter-1.57.ebuild => Test-Reporter-1.570.0.ebuild} (79%)

real	0m7.248s
user	0m1.260s
sys	0m0.380s

*** EIX-sync *** 

real	5m52.011s
user	0m14.179s
sys	0m9.313s

--- Sun Feb 12 01:36:00 MSK 2012 ---
 * Chrooting to /var/async.emerge/chroot:
 *   Automounting AUFS,
 * Mounting AUFS root to /var/async.emerge/:
 *   /var/async.emerge/delta/etc/mtab unlinked.                   [ ok ] 
 *   Binded and mounted 28 dirs, +0 created, +5 binded as transparent (non-merged) and created 0 symlinks.                                                       [ ok ] 
 * Chrooting to /var/async.emerge/chroot (continued):
 *   Cleaning /var/async.emerge/chroot/var/run from host's *.pid. [ ok ] 
 *   proc fs is mounted to /var/async.emerge/chroot/proc.         [ ok ] 
 *   Mounting sys fs is not configured.                           [ ok ] 
 * Starting Virtually Chrooted System with: 'ae_makeworld' ...    [ ok ] 
 *   Starting Gentoo Update:
 *   Testing for possibilities of various updates:
 *     - testing with '-DNu @world' ...                           [ ok ] 
 *   Updating system with restoring of consistency, pass 1 of 5:
 *     Saving critical system packages versions ...               [ ok ] 
 *     Updating world ...                                         [ ok ] 
 *     Checking critical system packages versions ...             [ ok ] 
 *     Checking for various subsets updates:                      [ ok ] 
 *       GCC, EIX, Python, Perl, X server, GTK+, CUPS, SIP, CAcert updates were not detected. [ ok ] 
 *     Cleaning system from unused dependencies ...               [ ok ] 
 *     Rebuilding of consumers for advised libs is not configured. [ ok ] 
 *     Rebuilding world with @preserved-rebuild ...               [ ok ] 
 *     Rebuilding world with revdep-rebuild is not configured.    [ ok ] 
 *     There are no scheduled tasks.                              [ ok ] 
 *   Now the system is consistently.                              [ ok ] 
 * Unchrooting from /var/async.emerge/chroot:
 *   proc fs is unmounted from /var/async.emerge/chroot/proc.     [ ok ] 
 *   Autounmounting AUFS,
 * Unmounting AUFS /+/var from /var/async.emerge/:
 *   Unmounted and unbinded 28 dirs, +5 as transparent (non-merged) and 0 specials. [ ok ] 
 * Unchrooting from /var/async.emerge/chroot (continued)          [ ok ] 

real	56m37.414s
user	77m15.338s
sys	14m13.191s

</pre>

== Typical installation log ==

When you decide to install packages, you see the next output:
<pre># ae_install  
 * (ae_makeworld: verbose mode is ON) 
 *   Starting Gentoo Update: 
 *   Testing for possibilities of various updates is not configured ...   [ ok ] 
 *   Updating system with restoring of consistency, pass 1 of 5: 
 *     Saving critical system packages versions ...                       [ ok ] 
 *     Updating world ... 
 * Mounting 4G of memory to /var/tmp/portage ... [ ok ] 
 * emerge -ukbDNv world 

These are the packages that would be merged, in order: 

Calculating dependencies  ... ........... done!
[binary     U  ] dev-libs/libxslt-1.1.26-r3 [1.1.26-r2] USE="crypt -debug -python -static-libs" 0 kB
[binary   R    ] net-wireless/bluez-4.98-r1  USE="alsa consolekit cups gstreamer readline%* usb -caps -debug -pcmcia -test-programs" 0 kB
[binary   R    ] net-nds/openldap-2.4.24  USE="berkdb crypt cxx minimal odbc samba sasl ssl syslog* -debug -experimental -gnutls -icu -iodbc -ipv6 -kerberos -overlays -perl (-selinux) -slp -smbkrb5passwd -tcpd" 0 kB
[binary     U  ] media-gfx/imagemagick-6.7.5.3 [6.7.1.0] USE="X bzip2 cxx djvu fftw graphviz hdri jpeg jpeg2k lcms lzma openmp pango%* png q32 q8 svg tiff truetype wmf xml zlib -autotrace -corefonts* -fontconfig -fpx -gs -jbig -lqr -opencl -openexr -perl (-q64) -raw -static-libs -test% -webp" 0 kB

Total: 4 packages (2 upgrades, 2 reinstalls, 4 binaries), Size of downloads: 0 kB 

>>> Starting parallel fetch 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 0.84, 0.32, 0.15 
>>> Emerging binary (1 of 4) dev-libs/libxslt-1.1.26-r3 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 0.84, 0.32, 0.15 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.84, 0.32, 0.15 
>>> Installing (1 of 4) dev-libs/libxslt-1.1.26-r3 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.84, 0.32, 0.15 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.81, 0.33, 0.16 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 0.81, 0.33, 0.16 
>>> Emerging binary (2 of 4) net-wireless/bluez-4.98-r1 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 0.81, 0.33, 0.16 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.81, 0.33, 0.16 
>>> Installing (2 of 4) net-wireless/bluez-4.98-r1 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.81, 0.33, 0.16 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.78, 0.35, 0.17 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 0.78, 0.35, 0.17 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 0.78, 0.35, 0.17 
>>> Emerging binary (3 of 4) net-nds/openldap-2.4.24 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 0.78, 0.35, 0.17 
>>> Emerging binary (4 of 4) media-gfx/imagemagick-6.7.5.3 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 0.78, 0.35, 0.17 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 0.78, 0.35, 0.17 
>>> Installing (3 of 4) net-nds/openldap-2.4.24 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 0.78, 0.35, 0.17 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.96, 0.39, 0.18 
>>> Jobs: 3 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.89, 0.40, 0.18 
>>> Installing (4 of 4) media-gfx/imagemagick-6.7.5.3 
>>> Jobs: 3 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 0.89, 0.40, 0.18 
>>> Jobs: 4 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 1.05, 0.47, 0.21 


 * Messages for package net-wireless/bluez-4.98-r1: 

 * If you want to use rfcomm as a normal user, you need to add the user 
 * to the uucp group. 
 * You will need to add bluetooth service to default runlevel 
 * for getting your devices detected from startup without needing 
 * to reconnect them. For that please run: 
 * 'rc-update add bluetooth default' 

 * Messages for package net-nds/openldap-2.4.24: 

 * Getting started using OpenLDAP? There is some documentation available: 
 * Gentoo Guide to OpenLDAP Authentication 
 * (http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/ldap-howto.xml) 
 * --- 
 * An example file for tuning BDB backends with openldap is 
 * DB_CONFIG.fast.example in /usr/share/doc/openldap-2.4.24/ 
>>> Auto-cleaning packages... 

>>> No outdated packages were found on your system. 

 * GNU info directory index is up-to-date. 

 * IMPORTANT: 4 config files in '/etc' need updating. 
 * See the CONFIGURATION FILES section of the emerge 
 * man page to learn how to update config files. 

!!! existing preserved libs: 
>>> package: media-gfx/imagemagick-6.7.5.3 
 *  - /usr/lib64/libMagick++.so.4 
 *  - /usr/lib64/libMagick++.so.4.0.1 
 *      used by /usr/bin/inkscape (media-gfx/inkscape-0.48.2) 
 *      used by /usr/bin/inkview (media-gfx/inkscape-0.48.2) 
 *  - /usr/lib64/libMagickCore.so.4 
 *  - /usr/lib64/libMagickCore.so.4.0.1 
 *      used by /usr/bin/spumux (media-video/dvdauthor-0.6.18) 
 *      used by /usr/lib64/transcode/export_im.so (media-video/transcode-1.1.7) 
 *      used by /usr/lib64/transcode/filter_compare.so (media-video/transcode-1.1.7) 
 *      used by 5 other files 
 *  - /usr/lib64/libMagickWand.so.4 
 *  - /usr/lib64/libMagickWand.so.4.0.1 
 *      used by /usr/bin/tcprobe (media-video/transcode-1.1.7) 
 *      used by /usr/lib64/transcode/export_im.so (media-video/transcode-1.1.7) 
 *      used by /usr/lib64/transcode/filter_compare.so (media-video/transcode-1.1.7) 
 *      used by 5 other files 
Use emerge @preserved-rebuild to rebuild packages using these libraries 
 * After world updates, it is important to remove obsolete packages with 
 * emerge --depclean. Refer to `man emerge` for more information. 
 * unmounting tmpfs ... [ ok ]                                            [ ok ] 
 *     Checking critical system packages versions ...                     [ ok ] 
 *     Checking for various subsets updates:                              [ ok ] 
 *       GCC, EIX, Python, Perl, X server, GTK+, CUPS, SIP, CAcert update [ ok ]not detected. 
 *     Cleaning system from unused dependencies ... 
 * Mounting 4G of memory to /var/tmp/portage ... [ ok ] 
 * emerge -a -c --exclude sys-kernel/* 

 * Always study the list of packages to be cleaned for any obvious 
 * mistakes. Packages that are part of the world set will always 
 * be kept.  They can be manually added to this set with 
 * `emerge --noreplace <atom>`.  Packages that are listed in 
 * package.provided (see portage(5)) will be removed by 
 * depclean, even if they are part of the world set. 
 * 
 * As a safety measure, depclean will not remove any packages 
 * unless *all* required dependencies have been resolved.  As a 
 * consequence, it is often necessary to run `emerge --update 
 * --newuse --deep @world` prior to depclean. 

Calculating dependencies  . ..... done! 
>>> No packages selected for removal by depclean 
>>> To see reverse dependencies, use --verbose 
Packages installed:   1412 
Packages in world:    276 
Packages in system:   41 
Required packages:    1412 
Number removed:       0 
 * unmounting tmpfs ... [ ok ]                                            [ ok ] 
 *     Rebuilding of consumers for advised libs is not configured.        [ ok ] 
 *     Rebuilding world with @preserved-rebuild ... 
 * Mounting 4G of memory to /var/tmp/portage ... [ ok ] 
 * emerge --usepkg y -b -v @preserved-rebuild 

These are the packages that would be merged, in order: 

Calculating dependencies  ... done! 
[binary   R    ] media-gfx/inkscape-0.48.2  USE="dia gnome inkjar lcms nls spell wmf -debug -gs" 0 kB 
[binary   R    ] media-video/dvdauthor-0.6.18  0 kB 
[binary   R    ] media-video/transcode-1.1.7  USE="X a52 aac alsa dv dvd iconv imagemagick jpeg lzo mjpeg mmx mp3 mpeg ogg sdl sse sse2 theora truetype v4l vorbis x264 xml xvid -3dnow (-altivec) (-nuv) -oss (-pic) -postproc -quicktime" 0 kB 
[binary   R    ] media-libs/xine-lib-1.1.20  USE="X a52 aac aalib alsa css dts fbcon flac gtk imagemagick libcaca mad mng modplug musepack nls opengl pulseaudio samba sdl speex theora truetype v4l vcd vorbis xcb xv xvmc (-altivec) -directfb (-dxr3) -ipv6 -jack -mmap -oss (-real) (-vidix) (-vis) -wavpack (-win32codecs) -xinerama" 0 kB 

Total: 4 packages (4 reinstalls, 4 binaries), Size of downloads: 0 kB 

>>> Starting parallel fetch 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 1.14, 0.57, 0.26 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.14, 0.57, 0.26 
>>> Emerging binary (1 of 4) media-gfx/inkscape-0.48.2 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.14, 0.57, 0.26 
>>> Emerging binary (2 of 4) media-video/dvdauthor-0.6.18 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.14, 0.57, 0.26 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 1.14, 0.57, 0.26 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.14, 0.57, 0.26 
>>> Installing (2 of 4) media-video/dvdauthor-0.6.18 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.14, 0.57, 0.26 
>>> Emerging binary (3 of 4) media-video/transcode-1.1.7 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.21, 0.60, 0.27 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 1.51, 0.67, 0.29 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.51, 0.67, 0.29 
>>> Emerging binary (4 of 4) media-libs/xine-lib-1.1.20 
>>> Jobs: 0 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.51, 0.67, 0.29 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.47, 0.68, 0.30 
>>> Installing (1 of 4) media-gfx/inkscape-0.48.2 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete, 2 running                Load avg: 1.47, 0.68, 0.30 
>>> Jobs: 1 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 1.47, 0.68, 0.30 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 1.47, 0.73, 0.32 
>>> Installing (3 of 4) media-video/transcode-1.1.7 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete, 1 running                Load avg: 1.35, 0.72, 0.32 
>>> Jobs: 2 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 1.35, 0.72, 0.32 
>>> Jobs: 3 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 1.37, 0.74, 0.33 
>>> Installing (4 of 4) media-libs/xine-lib-1.1.20 
>>> Jobs: 3 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 1.37, 0.74, 0.33 
>>> Jobs: 4 of 4 complete                           Load avg: 1.24, 0.74, 0.34 

>>> Auto-cleaning packages... 

>>> No outdated packages were found on your system. 

 * GNU info directory index is up-to-date. 

 * IMPORTANT: 4 config files in '/etc' need updating. 
 * See the CONFIGURATION FILES section of the emerge 
 * man page to learn how to update config files. 
 * unmounting tmpfs ... [ ok ]                                            [ ok ] 
 *     Rebuilding world with revdep-rebuild is not configured.            [ ok ] 
 *     There are no scheduled tasks.                                      [ ok ] 
 *   Now the system is consistently.                                      [ ok ] 
 *   Cleaning VCS: 
 * Clearing /var/async.emerge/delta ...                                   [ ok ] 
 * Clearing /var/async.emerge/chroot ...                                  [ ok ] 
 *   Unlinking obsoleted distfiles: 
 * Building file list for distfiles cleaning... 
 * Cleaning distfiles... 
 [    1.3 M ] LibRaw-0.14.3.tar.gz 
 [    1.3 M ] LibRaw-0.14.4.tar.gz 
 [   21.9 K ] async-emerge-1.2_alpha3.tar.bz2._checksum_failure_.XZOrUf 
 [    3.7 M ] links-2.3pre1.tar.bz2 
 =========== 
 [    6.3 M ] Total space from 4 files were freed in the distfiles directory 
 *   Unlinking obsoleted binary packages: 
 * Building file list for packages cleaning... 
 * Cleaning binary packages... 
 [  476.4 K ] dev-libs/libxslt-1.1.26-r2 
 [    7.0 M ] media-gfx/imagemagick-6.7.1.0 

Attempting to fix binhost 
100% [========================================================================>] 
Finished 

 [    2.5 K ] Packages Index 
 =========== 
 [    7.4 M ] Total space from 2 files were freed in the packages directory 
 *   Updating configs (interactively): 
Scanning Configuration files... 
The following is the list of files which need updating, each 
configuration file is followed by a list of possible replacement files. 
1) /etc/ImageMagick/delegates.xml (1) 
2) /etc/ImageMagick/policy.xml (1) 
3) /etc/ImageMagick/type-windows.xml (1) 
4) /etc/ImageMagick/type.xml (1) 
Please select a file to edit by entering the corresponding number. 
              (don't use -3, -5, -7 or -9 if you're unsure what to do) 
              (-1 to exit) (-3 to auto merge all remaining files) 
                           (-5 to auto-merge AND not use 'mv -i') 
                           (-7 to discard all updates) 
                           (-9 to discard all updates AND not use 'rm -i'): 
<skipped...> 
Exiting: Nothing left to do; exiting. :) 
 *   Binary packages installation is finished!                            [ ok ] 

real	16m2.007s 
user	5m2.564s 
sys	0m24.338s 
</pre>